Hey, Karasuno is swapping setters.
Don't get down.
We're just pausing to change the rhythm.
I'm sorry.
Of course I'm worried about him.
But what if both of them break at the same time?
I told you that I'd be the one to defeat you!
Hinata, he'll get mad at you!
You're not allowed to lose to anyone till then!
The match isn't over,
so I haven't lost yet.
Really, he'll get mad at you.
Guess there was nothing to worry about.
Kageyama, I want you to watch closely from the sideline.
And use the opportunity to calm down.
Watch how your upperclassman plays.
Haikyuu !!
I take two deep breaths and calm my heart
I take a step with my left foot to break the silence
Get your nervousness in check and reign in your mind
You have it in you
You can cast out the demons
Fate? Random chance? Questions? Answers? It's all one
This is the sign
Oh, yeah!
The world is opening to us
We pass the door,
look straight ahead, and never look back
Oh, yeah!
I put my hand to my chest
I can feel the proof that I exist
It is my beating heart
Here!
Episode Twenty-one:
The Talented Upperclassman
It's okay! We're gonna get that point!
All right!
What?
Look at you. You're making that scary face.
This is the face I was born with!
You were so on edge, you went dead quiet.
I could tell you were deep in thought about something,
but it's hard to tell what you're thinking if you don't say anything.
You mean I wasn't yelling at all?
Yeah, more than any other match we've played so far.
It was atrocious.
Shit. Have I lost it to the point he gets to lecture me?
Hey, about the setter Karasuno just put in the match...
Number two... Hey, he's a third-year.
Yikes!
His place in the starting lineup was given to the new first-year prodigy!
Daichi, you didn't yell as much as usual.
The captain has to keep it together.
Yeah, sorry.
Suga is the only one...
...who can lecture Daichi.
Tsukishima.
It's hard for me to tell where Mr. Pleasant's talent lies,
but from what I saw of his warmup,
I gather that he's serious and meticulous.
Iwa, try to hit one straight down at number two's position, since he has a low block.
Right.
Nice receive!
Tanaka!
Come on in!
Iwa!
Hit it...
straight down at the low blocker!
Iwa!
Shut out!
Could they tell he was gonna hit it straight down?
Yeah! That was a neat trick!
They switched blocker positions
right before the opponent spiked!
Nice block, Tsukishima. Nice going!
I can't take the credit.
When we play against a tough team, they almost always target me because I'm a low blocker.
I was pretty sure this match would be no exception.
It's reassuring having someone tall beside me!
No, I mean... Yes, sir.
My bad.
Shake it off!
Sorry, Iwa.
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
Boo-yah!
Hinata?
Tsukishima, give us a good serve!
Here!
Nice receive, Kunimi!
Damn, he hit it back perfectly!
Fast attack time?!
A Quick?!
Right on!
Hinata, that was great!
It was just like you said, Sugawara!
The next time they neatly return the ball to their setter, they'll probably do a quick attack in the center.
But I want you to go slowly and delay your jump slightly.
Yup!
It was definitely frustrating to watch from the sideline,
but I think I had a calmer perspective from out there.
The time I spent not being playing served its purpose.
We've gotten a lot more psyched!
Yeah.
Don't worry.
Are you worried that benching a prideful guy like Kageyama will make him get bent out of shape?
He'll be fine.
I believe that the factors behind Kageyama's strength
and prowess are his pride and hunger for improvement.
Tsukishima, serve up another one!
Aoba Jousai                    Karasuno
One point to break it!
Let's see, what's the next attack?
Yeah!
Bring it!
Give us a good serve!
I don't have the technical skill to make perfect sets like Kageyama,
so I want to use signals to communicate our next attack.
He's the poor third-year who gave up his spot in the lineup to a first-year prodigy.
That's what Suga looks like to a bystander. However...
He's not saying "give me" or "send it"!
Tobio isn't setting, so there won't be any superhuman fast attacks!
Oh yeah!
Suga has done non-stop simulations of standing on the court.
He's Karasuno's other setter!
All right!
My technical skill and physical talent pale in comparison to Kageyama's,
but I've watched our team a little longer than he has.
I know I could never beat Aoba Jousai,
but my teammates are good at what they do!
This point will turn it around!
Yeah!
Aoba Jousai
Karasuno
Yes!
Shake it off, Hinata.
Hey, listen.
You can do it!
One point!
Shit. Now...
it's Oikawa's serve.
Bring it!
Olé!
I've got it!
Leave it to me!
A campfire.
He placed that perfectly.
I'm sorry! I should've gone for it.
I went in too close. I'm sorry!
Olé!
Front!
All right!
Aoba Jousai                       Karasuno
Set point for Seijou.
Shit. How many points have been taken by that serve of his?!
If there was an ideal way to play volleyball,
it would be to take 25 points with serves alone.
This will finish it!
Yeah!
The opponent is given no opportunity to attack.
That's what a service ace is all about.
I'll get it!
Yes, sir!
Number ten as decoy with number five from the right.
No, it's a back row attack!
Hanamaki, nice receive!
Hinata, just spike it back!
I've never done that before.
You klutz!
Would you shut up?!
Hey, listen.
About Seijou's fast attacks.
I think they do theirs a little slower than we do.
That's why...
Delay just a little more than usual.
Then jump!
Back!
Get back!
It's out!
Aoba Jousai                       Karasuno
Time to change sides. Let's go!
That was real close, Hinata!
We'll stop the next one!
Yes, sir!
Shit, that was close!
They matched our timing perfectly!
Ever since number two was put in the match,
everyone, including the small fry who moves only on instinct,
is starting to think before they act.
Rule the Court
Here.
We're using the current lineup for the second set.
Yessir!
So, the biggest obstacle is obviously Oikawa's serve...
so we're switching it up to make our defense more precise!
Karasuno's attacks are way out there.
Once we got ourselves in the mindset of number ten and Kageyama's fast attack,
a normal fast attack like that really throws you off.
You always end up paying too
much attention to number ten.
Iwa, don't strain the few brain cells you have! You'll hurt your head.
We only scrutinized Kageyama during the practice match.
Who knew they had another solid setter on their team?
Sugawara!
Yeah?
Kindaichi's...
Um, the turnip head's...
Do you think number twelve's fast attack is a little on the slow side?
I do!
He kind of sits back and watches the ball and then goes for the hit.
Putting a completely unknown playmaker like Sugawara in the match definitely throws off our opponent.
He's different from Kageyama.
Yeah.
I was after the mentality that'd
return the others to their senses,
but I didn't expect this result.
We can use this in more matches.
Kageyama.
Yes, sir.
I know that unofficially we're kind of like rivals vying for the same position...
but I want to have lots of play time too!
Th-The same goes for me.
But now that I'm actually on the court,
I notice how tall our opponents are, and I became an immediate walking target for spikes.
I get intimidated.
This would've had me cowering before,
but now you're waiting behind me.
It's incredibly reassuring.
The points scored while I'm playing
and the points scored while you're playing
are all points for Karasuno.
I'll do my own absolute best,
and you'll do your absolute best too.
That's how we'll beat Seijou!
Yessir!
Are you down in the dumps, Mister Kageyama?
Hardly!
What?! I was feeling sorry for how lousy you must feel.
Worry about yourself! What was that wimpy spike supposed to be?!
Shut up! I'd never done one like that before!
Once I'm back in the match,
prepare to hit more of the same!
Karasuno                       Aoba Jousai
Let's go!
Yeah!
Haikyuu !!
Suga!
Don't you start overthinking everything too!
R-Right.
We're going to take it back in the second set.
We need to start by combating Oikawa's serve.
Karasuno has moved up their rotation slightly for the second set.
Seijou's is the same as the first set.
Still, I wonder why they did that?
All right!
Nice, Tsukishima!
Yes, sir.
Give us another one of those!
When I make a ball count,
Sugawara showers me with compliments!
Oh, really?
He doesn't do it to be friendly.
I think he talks to each spiker
to measure their emotional state
and to get a bearing on how well they feel on a given day.
Tsukishima's case is special, because unlike the other third-years, Sugawara doesn't know that much about him.
That face you're making screams, "Why should I inquire into the health of a guy like Tsukishima, you moron?"
I-I wasn't...
You know how you immediately adjust if Hinata finds the ball hard to hit?
Yes. He likes to swing into thin air.
But I think the others have their own technical skills to hit balls like that.
It's funny coming from me,
but I think our spikers are pretty advanced.
I also think so.
In that case,
if they were all hitting at 100% capacity, don't you think they could compete with most blocks that got in their way?
One point!
It's the Great King's turn to serve!
Serve receive W-Formation!
When Oikawa serves,
we'll switch up our defense to have the best receivers in back.
When we're up against Oikawa's super-fast serve,
a moment's hesitation or any confusion is fatal.
So I'd like to tackle this by using Nishinoya and Sawamura, our two outstanding receivers.
This is a formation we have never done in practice.
But I think you can pull it off.
We'll do it!
That's so cool!
This rotation of theirs in the second set...
Did they move it slightly forward from the first set just so they could...
They did it in order to align this formation to Oikawa's turn at serving!
Oikawa's serves dismembered us, and we lost five points to service aces in the first set alone.
One point breaks the cycle!
Yessir!
Bring it!
Until we combat that serve of his, we can't win against Seijou.
Olé!
Daichi!
Yes!
Nice receive!
Breaking the cycle of Oikawa's serve with one point is very significant.
If we can score here, it'll count for a lot.
This point is essential,
and the pressure to make it is massive.
I'll give it to the guy stopped the momentum of Oikawa's serves in the first set to get himself back on his feet.
Tanaka!
It's up to you!
All...
...right!
They stopped him!
Way to go, Captain.
Let's get a point!
Tsukishima, give us a good serve!
I think our spikers are pretty advanced.
If they were all hitting at 100% capacity, don't you think they could compete with most blocks that got in their way?
Our morale is impeccable!
We need one point!
Seijou is our superior in experience and fundamental skill.
Yeah!
It'll get rough if they take the lead.
But as long as we stay close,
the momentum will eventually turn our way!
Okay, the field is equal in the second set.
Karasuno                 Aoba Jousai
All right!
Nice, Asahi!
Yeah, but their blockers are all over them.
Kindaichi, you're learning to read their attacks.
Yessir!
Mr. Pleasant is definitely not a bad setter,
but he always sets up textbook attacks,
and they're never rushed.
Karasuno definitely has great
fundamental offensive power,
but we've played against several teams just like that.
Now, let's leave them in our dust.
Good!
Y'know, I think the enemy spikers
are learning to anticipate our setter.
Yeah.
Give us a good one!
Olé!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
Back-to-back points for Seijou.
Scoring on your opponent's serve is where momentum starts flowing.
Don't let Seijou ride the wave!
Karasuno has been using their left wing spikers a lot since they swapped their setter.
That's because both of them are powerful.
However, they're probably easier to deal with than number ten's bobbing and weaving.
Let's score here!
I can feel a noose getting tighter around my neck.
Yet I feel surprisingly calm.
Impatience isn't interfering with my concentration yet.
It's most likely because I have an obvious goal.
Go get that point!
I thought that being benched
was proof that my usefulness was at an end.
In reality, that probably was why I was benched back then.
But...
Now, you're waiting behind me.
It's incredibly reassuring.
Sugawara and I excel at different things,
but I'm sure we share a common goal.
Left! Left!
Cover it!
I've got it!
I want to play.
I want to play in the match!
I want to stay here longer.
I want to stay with these guys.
Give me the stress of being on the court.
Let me keep playing with these guys.
Give me the breathlessness!
Let me stay here.
I want to touch the ball.
I want to fight.
I want to make the sets myself!
As many times as it takes!
In that case...
I'll do my own absolute best,
and you'll do your absolute best too.
That's how...
...we'll win the match that's in front of us!
Nice receive!
Yes!
Nice block, Kindaichi!
I'm sorry, Hinata.
I took too much time during that last fast attack.
Uh, not at all.
They've called for Karasuno's number nine.
I think they're gonna switch setters.
I might have one more play left.
Suga.
Give me the next ball.
I'll make it count.
Right!
Give us a good one!
All right!
Whoa.
I hate to say it, but...
Hinata looks completely different when he's hitting your sets.
I'm sure you're already aware of this,
but everyone on our team is good at what they do.
Yes, sir.
Okay, go w—
Go win this
Let's win this.
Yes, sir.
Good job.
Good work.
You played neck-and-neck against Seijou.
That's because we have a good team.
Still, you know.
From here on in, we should probably try
attacking the center line more aggressively.
Yes, sir! Thank you!
What the...
The words "From here on in" are
probably music to Sugawara's ears.
If everyone's working as best they can,
I know we can take on a team like Seijou.
But to get that vital step ahead, Karasuno really needs to have its ultimate decoy functioning at 100%.
You're the only one...
who can do that, Kageyama.
We run laps convinced that we will all make it
We suffer through the nights for a vision we chose on a whim
If you really want fairness then we'd all look basically the same
We will suffer through more nights for a vision instead of standing still
Our passion burns until the morning and we advance with closed eyes
I haven't forgotten you despite this passion
I run with only my headlight for guidance
No matter what awaits me I will laugh in this body I was born in
Is there someone running with your taillight for guidance?
What you call determination just means bunching up
Is someone going to follow up on all these impressions?
Will vowing to never falter let me laugh again?
Next Episode Preview
Welcome back, Tobio!
No holds barred.
Now, now. Just relax.
We already know you're not capable of much.
Tsukishima, he's meaner than you!
Are you okay with that?!
It's not a competition.
Episode Twenty-two:
Evolution
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"Evolution."